//Review
645 of 655 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             This monitor is a MUST have! I am a picky Mom! Read here to see what others didn't post., September 2, 2011                        By&nbsp;maxdmia   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         Ok, I have a type "A" personailty and I reserched the heck out of several monitors. I have been shopping around for the "perfect" monitor for months buying and returning until I have found what I want. (My son is 6 months old) I have tried several brands/types of video monitors such as Sony, Summer Infant monitors, and a Costco brand that can be used via the internet and Iphone/Ipad2. This Motorola monitor is the BEST that I have found. Money was not an issue for me as I wanted a video/audio monitor that just worked well. I do recommend spending a little more and buying the 3.5 inch monitor.

Ok, what to say that has not been covered in other positive posts.....The resolution at night is awesome as I can see my baby breathing. (VERY important) I can see everything in great detail. The camera views best when mounted on the wall close to the crib-this way it can scan straight down and straight up viewing the entire crib and room. I originally placed it on a "wall shelf" but when I scanned down I could see a bit of the shelf instead of the entire crib. Also important when you have a child that rolls all over the crib as they sleep! You need to see every inch of the crib. (On the back of the camera is a tiny hole to hang on a nail or screw.) I hung mine on my wall just above a shelf and to blend it in I placed stuffed animals on either side-very nice looking and discreet. I painted the white cord to match the wall to blend it in. When scanning from the monitor it makes absolutely no noise and doesn't wake the baby. The sound is great!

I am a light sleeper and wake at his every roll and whimper at night. I used to get NO sleep. With this monitor I can put the volume up loud to hear every little move or put the volume down low to only wake when he cries loudly. The monitor has a light indicator on top to inform you of the "loudness" of the baby's cry. Also, I live in a two story home with wireless everything (my house is Grand Central with all the wireless technology.) and this monitor does great with cell phone, wireless router, and computer reception. There is no interference at all. The battery on the monitor, when fully charged, lasts 8 to 10 hours but I recommend it plugged in to the power cord at night. There is no delay. What you see is what is happening, allowing you to get to your baby fast!

The only thing I would add is a clip to the monitor to be able to strap it to you and the time. Sometimes I like to know what time it is for feeding purposes. Awsome monitor and well worth the money as now I finally get some sleep and peace of mind at night!!!

Update****02/16/13
I have now owned this monitor for year or so, and have recently encountered more problems.
- The night vision on one of the cameras has. I can barely see my son anymore, and if he didn't have dark hair, I am not sure I would even know where he was in the crib.
- The battery life of the parent unit is also dying. It used to hold a charge for about 5 hours, and now the charge lasts maybe 1 hour.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (43)


//Review
158 of 160 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Best monitor on the market, August 23, 2011                        By&nbsp;J. D. Robinson "KnottyMonkey"  (Atlanta, GA)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         This monitor is amazing.  Over the last 3 and a half years I have bought and returned probably 5 monitors.  We ended up with a Summer monitor for the first 2.5 years, then it finally broke and replaced it with a Summer Bestview.  The only problem is that model (bought in January 2011) is discontinued and with a second baby on the way we need a second camera which is no longer available.  I have been researching for weeks now, reading every review on Amazon and other sites and decided to order the Motorola MBP36.

When I wrote this review a few weeks ago, a second monitor was not available anywhere.  Although they are not available on Amazon yet (as of 9/1/2011), they are available online at other major baby stores where you "buy" stuff for babies (hint hint).  I just ordered one today, which now makes this the perfect monitor.

PROS
- LCD Unit
First of all, the LCD screen is huge.  It is 3.5" diagonally.  For reference, and iPhone is also 3.5".  The aspect ratio is a bit more square than an iPhone, but you get the idea.  The unit is very thin, its about as thick as a typical men's wallet.  It is lightweight, has a nice kick stand that seems very sturdy and nice, grippy rubber feet on the bottom that are very unobtrusive but work great.  There is an antenna across the top back that can flip up if you need it to get better reception, but we have never needed it, even when two floors away.  There are 4 buttons on each side of the screen, 4 directional that control camera, volume, menu navigation, a menu button, an "ok" button, a video on/off button and a microphone button.  They are well placed, it is not a huge problem to have to hit the menu to get to volume, we had to do the same on the Summer Bestview and it is the first menu option (i.e. hit the menu button and it is already in the volume option, so just hit up/down from there).

As you can tell from the pictures, the unit has pretty good industrial design too, which seems to be the trend in baby monitors now.  Battery life is decent, it works enough to have a daytime nap and then use it again in the evening without charging in between.  Your not going to get more than 3-4 hours out of it if you use the LCD a lot though.  There is a series of LEDs across the top that indicate how much noise your kids are making, and there is a very accurate temperature display (based on reviews, sounds like Samsung temp is off by 10 degrees, but this unit matches the thermostat outside the room so I'm assuming spot on).

- Camera
The ability to scan and pan is great, very quiet and no likely to disrupt your kid.  There is a small green LED on the front of the camera, but you can't see the infrared lights in the dark (unlike our Summer Bestview which looks like 10 little LEDs in the dark).  The zoom is not great, kind of hard to get to on the menu and it is only a digital zoom that crops the center of the picture and doubles it.  It is small and can be placed pretty much anywhere.  The picture that it sends to the handheld unit is great (as far as baby monitors go).  It isn't going to win a technical Oscar, but it is very clear. The huge LCD screen helps.  In daylight it is incredibly crisp and vibrant.  I haven't noticed any interference with WiFi, but haven't really tested either.  It operates at 2.4GHz and we mostly have 5Ghz 802.11n devices, so we are in a different bandwidth that doesn't conflict.

If you have additional cameras (up to 4), you can set the monitor to manually scan through them, it will stay on each one for 12 seconds based on what it says in the manual.  You can have up to 4 cameras, but there is no ability to see multiple ones on the the screen at once (like the Lorex).

CONS
I guess a minor quibble might be that you can't put batteries in the camera, but the old monitor had this functionality and we never used it in 2.5 years so not an issue for me.  One other possible thing worth mentioning is that the monitor unit takes a proprietary battery, very similar to what a lot of cordless phones have.  One other minor thing worth mentioning is that the infrared LEDs at night are not very bright from 10 feet away, we are just going to put a shelf near our 3 year olds bed so that it will be closer (think of the LEDs around the camera as flashlights for night vision).

I can say without reservation that this thing deserves 5 stars after a 3 full weeks with it.  My wife loves the size of the screen, the light weight monitor, the portability, ease of use etc.  Its a very cool product.

*Update 8/24/2011* minor spelling correction (sales to sails) and added clarifying point in final paragraph "even though it supports 4 cameras", which was already mentioned above but needed reiterating.

*Update 9/1/2011* Removed comments about additional cameras not being available since I bought one today.  Added a few minor updates to the review.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (23)


//Review
80 of 84 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             This is the winner after trying two other similar monitors, September 11, 2011                        By&nbsp;Babyboojk   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         First of all, I've tried 3 different baby monitors with the screen. What I expected/wanted from the baby monitors are these:
1) Good quality of the screen so I can see my baby (even breathing: chest going up and down at night)
2) Easy of use (I just hate anything that is a pain to use)
3) Camera pan/zoom option (My baby moves around and I like having camera close to him, so this is a really good feature to have)

So, let me explain how those three monitors performed.

First one is Motorola Digital Video Baby Monitor with 3.5 Inch Color LCD Screen (At Amazon regular price: 229.99)

This one is the winner. It has a good picture quality, zoom in, is really easy to use. That's it. It satisfied all those three categories. Other feature I also liked but not necessary are,, talk back, lullaby (well, kinda useless for my baby). I wish it was made with a little better quality plastic (compared to other two I've tried) and wish it had clock on the screen, which is very helpful at night when the baby wakes up! One thing I noticed though, was that battery of parent unit goes out SO QUICK when it is not plugged in, and use rechargeable battery.

Second one is Samsung Wireless Video Security Monitoring System w/ 3.5" LCD (At Amazon regular price: 179)

This one,, sigh... I really wanted to love it... I always trust Samsung quality. and YES, it comes up to that quality standard (both physical material that is made out of, and some great added features) that I look for. BUT there are a few cons that I just could not live with.
First of all, this one is LOADED with FEATURES. It has the best quality screen (almost like a digital camera! which is very impressive for a baby monitor! Both day and night time, it showed consistent great quality), talk back, Date/Time, viewable from the computer, etc etc... Just a lot!

However what threw me off was that vibration/beep when the parents unit wakes up from the sleep mode. Basically this thing goes to sleep when the baby does not make a sound or makes a sound that's not too alarming. It is trying to give parents some time to sleep unless baby cries so much. HOWEVER, I noticed that it did not pick up small cries that I also wanted to hear. And that VIOLENT vibration would just startle me every time the unit wakes itself from the sleep mode. I almost had heart attack every time it did it. I mean it is VIOLENT vibration. It is way too powerful and hear this, you can not control it, nor you can turn it off. You can either choose between vibration or loud beep, which is also annoying. I guess they did not test this out themselves. If they had a baby, they would know that just sound of a baby crying will wake parents up.

Another thing that made me return this unit: lack of zoom and pan feature. OK. I should have read before purchasing this one, but so sad it did not have this feature, while having all other useless ones?! weird.

The Last thing I wanna point out on this: freaking annoying to go around the menu and hard to use! This thing is loaded with features (a lot of not so necessary) and but failed to organize it successfully under the menu. Also, it has way too many buttons around the parents unit that I do not think are the "most-used" buttons for parents. Once again, did they really test this thing with real parents with real babies?!! It's like having a cell phone, trying to figure out where/what category the feature I want to use might be hidden under. A lot of them were where it did not make sense to me. Basically, very annoying to use.

Third one is Summer Infant Best View Handheld Color Video Monitor (At Amazon regular price: 199.99)

I had a high hope for this one, as I heard good things about Summer Infant baby monitors. I will make it short. It has the best "Ease of use" amongst all three. The parents unit had buttons (shapes and placements) that made most sense out of three I've tried. Plastic (or any other material that were used) quality was great. It does not have bells and whistles as other ones, such as talk back, lullaby, etc etc. It also has zoom in/panning feature that is very helpful.

BUT, this is why I returned this thing: the BAD, BAD, I mean BAAAAAAAAAAAD screen quality, especially at night. It made my baby look like those "ghost pictures" people take. Like those grainy pictures that people claim that they have captured the ghost in the picture... Get what I mean? It is super grainy I could not recognize my own baby's face! My baby's face filled up the whole screen (I'm saying this to say that I did not have the camera far from my baby) but still I had to guess, oh those two black blobs would be his eyes.. and another one below them is his nose?? no,, mouth??? Yes, basically, if you are looking for a baby monitor with a screen, why would you waste money on a screen that is useless? Move onto other monitors.

Finally, after using three, I realized that Motorolla had to be the winner, and I've been using it over a month and very pleased with it. Hope my review helped.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
54 of 58 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             The Minutiae of 2 Monitors: Motorola MBP36 & Summer Infant Touch, October 10, 2011                        By&nbsp;M Baker  (IL USA)  - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         The Minutiae of 2 Monitors: Motorola MBP36 & Summer Infant Touch
Motorola Digital Video Baby Monitor with 3.5 Inch Color LCD Screen
Summer Infant Baby Touch Digital Color Video Monitor
This review discusses the minutiae, good and bad, of both monitors. (Same review under both products).
Summary: Motorola: 4 stars, SI: 4.5 stars. Both monitors are great and fit the bill for a pan/tilt monitor. It's the little details and personal preference that will determine the best monitor for you. FYI, we come from a history of owning the Summer Infant BestView-pre2011. We would have just added a 2nd camera to our unit if it were still available. Where applicable, we noted where SI has improved some things from the BestView to the Touch.

Both monitors have a 3.5" screen. The pictures in both daytime and night vision are very good. The sound and talk back on both units is good. The pan/tilt is quiet overall on both cameras. The biggest difference is how to access the features you feel are most important to you. Below are some notable differences between the two units.

Overall layout (see labeled pictures):
Video On/Off: external button on both
Volume: in menu on Motorola, dedicated top toggle on SI
Pan/Tilt: external (Left) buttons on Motorola, in a menu with touch arrows on SI
Zoom: in a menu on both
Scan: external button on Motorola, in a menu on SI

Buttons: SI wins this hands down. Unless you are awake every time you use the monitor, you cannot easily find and press the correct button, one-handed, in a dark room/semi-sleep state. For us, this design difference is what sealed the deal for SI over Motorola. We can easily find the Video On/Off and volume with tactile sense. We would have resorted to making a raised surface on the 3rd button if we chose to keep the Motorola.

SI touch screen: Many people commented that you can brush up against the screen anywhere and turn the menu on/select items. This doesn't seem to be totally the case. You not only have to have the video ON, but you also have to press on the very right or bottom strip of the picture/screen to bring up the menu. A random touch anywhere on the screen will not bring the menu up. Also of note, accessing the main functions (Video On/Off and Volume) does not require the touch menu since these buttons are located on the OUTSIDE of the unit. We are fine with going into a menu for less-common functions such as pan/zoom/scan because we will not be doing this nearly as often as turning the video on/off and adjusting volume. (And the SI volume toggle does NOT activate the touch screen so the monitor can stay dark while you adjust volume.)

Interference: we had problems with our old SI (BestView) and wireless interference. The Motorola had much less interference than the SI Touch, the SI Touch seemed to have the same interference as the SI BestView. We opted to upgrade/change routers to solve this problem instead of compromising on any monitors. A router is a cheaper electronic piece to swap out than a monitor system (esp with multiple cameras).

Camera range: we placed each camera on the same peg over the bed. The SI showed ¾ of the bed, the Motorola showed a little less than ½. For us that meant HAVING TO pan the Motorola each time to see where baby rolled. We have the camera at the max height on the wall. The camera could easily be placed at a different angle relative to the bed to avoid panning. This is just to compare how the video outputs differ relative to each other. (The specs are undoubtedly written in the manuals somewhere describing the camera lens type.)

Night vision LEDs: both the Motorola and SI Touch have 'invisible' LED lights to provide night vision. On the monitors, this looks like a spotlight with darker edges that look like they're `in the shade.' This is subtle and not really noticeable except at the lowest screen brightness setting. For reference, the old SI BestView had a circle of red LED lights around the lens that resulted in a more evenly-lit monitor picture.

Speaker: located in the back of the unit on the Motorola. The SI speaker is redesigned but still on the front of the monitor. Both units have an 8-level sound bar and each level between the 2 brands seems about equal. Several have been concerned that the volume does NOT go to zero on the Motorola. However, the speaker is on the back of the unit and makes the lowest setting almost equivalent to a mute setting. In testing it, we found that the rear speaker placement helped block the background rustling/movement that we didn't want to hear, but did not hinder us hearing the louder baby noises that we did want to hear. (Also for comparison's sake, the Motorola and SI Touch level 4 is equivalent to SI BestView level 2 so there is improved ability to adjust the lower/quieter sound levels; the quiet sounds are quieter and loud sounds (above level 4) are still loud. ...a great change for SI fans.

Cameras: The Motorola has nice rubber feet at the base that keep the camera from sliding where placed. The SI has a light plastic feel and the base is so light it feels like the camera will topple over. (But it doesn't.) We put ours on the wall (not on a shelf) since that's the best way for us to use the pan/tilt, so the padded bottom is a non-issue (although the SI vibration against the wall was loud until we placed a felt pad sticker on it).

Monitors: The Motorola monitor also has the nice rubber grips on the bottom. It stays in place on a tabletop making it easier for you to grab. And you WILL need to grab it...with BOTH hands...in order to press the correct button(s) to activate any function. The SI comes with a little saucer-like magnetic recharging base. It's so light and plastic-y that it hangs on to the monitor when trying to break the magnetic connection. Because you need adequate pressure for the touch screen, you'll need to get your hands on the monitor to work the touch screen functions. Put the fancy saucer base in the trash and just use the charger port on the left side of the monitor unit itself. Overall, the Motorola is a niiiice monitor to hold. It's thick and chunky, like a portable game unit (think psp), and you can thumb the left and right buttons very, very easily. The SI is thinner and more sleek (fake chrome cover) and less comfortable to hold. And because you need to hold it length-wise (buttons on the top of the unit get in the way...), it's a little harder to balance than a touch phone that you may be used to holding.

The SI comes with a cordless click-on base for the camera. It takes 4 AA batteries, advertising a 10hr battery life. The batteries do NOT come with the unit and we think that you CANNOT use the power cord to charge the base, eg rechargeable batteries need to be taken out of the unit to be recharged. This is different than stated on the Amazon description. We have not tested this, but it's directly from the manufacturer info.

Motorola has a temp gauge. Never had it before and it's a nice feature to have. The temp of the Motorola is accurate since the camera doesn't run hot (goes up a few degrees temporarily when you move the camera) unlike reviews of other brands.

Motorola has an audible beep when the battery is low. Most people like this. We do not. A flashing light is adequate. We'd be pissed if this woke us up in the night, so any monitor stays plugged in during the overnight hours for this reason. (Plus the manufacturer recommends running the battery down during the day and charging at night to keep the battery life optimal.)

SI turns the video off in 3min if not plugged in. Motorola takes longer by about 1-1.5min.

Again, both units are great for a pan/tilt multi-camera setup. What you're used to in a monitor and what makes life easier for you in daily use will tip your scales one way or the other. But you cannot go wrong with either of these choices. We hope these little itty bitty details of these two units help someone.

*UPDATE* 11/10/11 We really wanted to like the Motorola because it had a more compact and nicer camera and the monitor design was superior to SI and had a great feel to it, but the accessibility of some features won out on the SI vs the Motorola. We've had the SI monitor for a month now and everything is still behaving. The only thing to add to the above information for the SI is that the touch screen is a little better than expected. As stated above, it is activated only if you push the menu button on the right side of the unit (very inconvenient location for one-handed use) or tap along the bottom/right of the touchscreen (like old-school digital picture frames). The nice thing is that once activated, the screen is very responsive to one-handed touch when sitting upright (eg on a nightstand). It's very easy to reach over and adjust brightness or use the arrow buttons with one finger and not knock it over. The only negative is in selecting items. Once you select the menu item (eg Brightness or Camera), you need to use the arrow buttons in the popup menu to get to and highlight what you want. For example, under Brightness you cannot just tap a higher level and have it go from 2 to 7. Instead, you have to tap the arrow up incrementally. The menu items of Brightness, Scan, and Switch Camera do this. (FYI in comparison, the Motorola has the same menu system but instead of tapping on the initial menu icon you needed to arrow thru all the menu icons to get to what you want. As mentioned in the original review, the VOLUME was one of these embedded menu items so it took 3-4 button clicks to adjust volume once you pulled up the menu.) Too bad these two monitoring systems can't have a child and make the PERFECT user-friendly system.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (6)


//Review
36 of 38 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             Awesome - except Night Vision/Support, December 7, 2011                        By&nbsp;sp-mp   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         This is by far the best video monitor I have ever used. Video quality, sound quality, features (love the VOX), the pan & zoom....this is the full package. I was so impressed. EXCEPT.....SUPPORT IS AWEFUL.

I have also used the Summer Infant video monitors and the Infant Optics. Summer infant held up well for 2 years, I have no complaints - they are a good company with solid products. The Infant Optics only worked for 1 day and then started having issues. Spend the extra money and get this one if you dare....just pray you never need customer service. If that's a concern, go Summer Infant.

Update: 3/13/2012: Both cameras are defective - neither has night vision anymore - the picture is essentially black. One went out about 2 weeks ago, and now the other one is out as well. I will have to call support and hope it goes better this time. I'm scared! Last time was terrible....                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (11)


//Review
26 of 28 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             This thing rocks!!, August 4, 2011                        By&nbsp;rewatx   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         I purchased and tried 4 top rated video monitors over the past 2 months and finally found this.  It is very easy to use.  Pan and tilt is easy and noiseless.  The 2 way communication is great - it sounds very clear and does not scare my kid when I speak to him.  The Noise level monitoring is very audible with not much white noise.  The picture is brillant and the nightvision is top notch.  The battery life is decent. It is expandable for extra cameras.  The menu is super easy to use.  In battery mode, the screen shuts off after a 1-2 mins to conserve battery, but the screen stays on when plugged in.  The MBP36 is the best baby monitor I have ever come across... by far!  Buy this and don't mess around with anything else.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment (1)


//Review
17 of 17 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             A camera that does NOT beep!, August 12, 2011                        By&nbsp;ACEM   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         Motorola really listened to what parents wanted and needed when they created the MBP 36.  This unit has many outstanding features (pan, tilt and zoom camera, night vision, lullabies you can play into the baby's room, two-way communication, etc.) that make viewing your baby easy and fun, however, the best feature is the beep free camera.  If you have tried any baby monitors, you will know a lot of them beep when you turn on the camera.  If you are trying to lay your child down for a nap or bed time and you don't have the camera turned on, you run the risk of waking up your child.  This unit does not have this problem.  You can power up the camera at anytime and there is no beep, noise, sound, etc.  I would highly recommend this unit to anyone who is in need of a baby monitoring device.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
12 of 12 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             **Two Updates** Re: Great camera, but missing some very basic features (!!!), March 29, 2012                        By&nbsp;A. Peterson   - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         **UPDATE 12/21/12**  I have now owned this monitor for year or so, and have recently encountered more problems.

- The night vision on one of the cameras has died (the other camera is fine...so far).  I can barely see my son anymore, and if he didn't have dark hair, I am not sure I would even know where he was in the crib.
- The battery life of the parent unit is also dying.  It used to hold a charge for about 5 hours, and now the charge lasts maybe 1 hour.

It is a hard call on this monitor -- it has so many wonderful features that are better than comparable monitors out there, but the disappointing elements/quality issues are so huge I am not sure it is worth it.

*UPDATE 5/14/12*  I changed my rating down even another star, which is SUCH a shame because it really is a great camera overall.  However, I am soooo frustrated with the placement of the two-way communication button.  As I mentioned in my original review, the button that allows you to talk into the camera is located on the main display and right under the view button.  After having several incidents of either myself mistakenly pushing that #!%?! button and thus waking the baby because he suddenly hears our voices, noise, etc., I have to say this would have probably been a deal-breaker if we had known this before purchasing this monitor.  It is so easy to accidentally hit that stupid button (via putting monitor in back pocket; trying to locate view button in middle-of-night, etc.) that it has become a real issue in our household.  In fact right now, I have to go and get a screaming baby that was abruptly awoken from a nap due to a curious preschooler who got her hands on the monitor and was trying to "see" her baby brother... *SIGH*  Just a thought to put in your considerations before buying this...
_______________________________________________________________

After kiddo #2, I did a lot of research before purchasing another video monitor.  Our first (Safety 1st True View) was lacking in many, many ways, so I wanted to make sure the next monitor got us the most bang-for-our-buck, as they say.

First the PROS of this unit:

- Nice big screen -- it really is wonderful as you can see everything!
- The pan/tilt feature is awesome!  Kids move around when they sleep.  Kids move around in their room.  Enough said, right?
- Control buttons pretty intuitive (but poorly situated -- read cons).
- Sound quality is great.
- Picture quality is fantastic, both day AND night vision.  I know others have said they thought the night vision was terrible, but both of our kids have dark, dark rooms with blackout curtains, and I can see every blink of the eyes and breath that they take at night.
- Temperature feature helpful, but I am not sure it is accurate.  Nonetheless, it give me a good idea if their rooms are too hot or cold.  Our kids' rooms have much more drastic temperature issues that the rest of our house as they sit over our garage, so this feature has been nice.
- The battery life is pretty good -- it usually lasts about 4 hours.
- The camera and parent unit lights are really dim -- in our experience, it does not light up the whole room and is barely noticeable.  No more spotlights on babies!  Nice.
- If you have two cameras, it is very easy to toggle from one to the other using only one button.  This button also allows you to set it to "Scan Mode" where every 12 sec. the screen will show each room cyclically.
- Rubber grips on the stand and parent unit so that it doesn't slide around or fall off.
- Long A/C adapter cord -- this can be both a pro and con -- pro in that it has a great reach from any outlet; con in that I trip on it all the time when I am moving the monitor to another room...the cord is SO LONG!

All those Pros being said, Motorola left out some very BASIC features, and some of the included ones are useless.  My family calls me the Queen of Complaints, but whatever. Here are the Cons:

- There are NO back lights to the parent unit.  And while this makes it really dim (a plus), it is terrible when you have been awakened in the middle of the night and are trying in vain to find the view button, but instead are accidentally panning the entire room, or pushing the two-way communication button so the baby hears scrambling around (Arrrrg!).  Seriously, Motorola???  This seems like a no-brainer feature to add.  They should have a back light that is activated by touch, much like cell phones have.
- There is no way to turn the volume completely off.  So, what is the point of having the noise level LED lights???  You can HEAR the noise level your baby/kid since they give you no choice not to.  This stinks when you are trying to sleep, but your kid has a cough; or baby is fussing-it-out a bit; or you are trying to actually watch a movie with your spouse after the kiddos are down.
- Which brings me to the next basic feature Motorola left out: Voice Activation!  They should have let you turn off the volume to the unit, but program voice activation if baby lets out a blood curdling scream, or whatnot.  I also wish that they had a voice activation feature for the multiple cameras, so that the parent unit would automatically focus on the room where a kid was crying.  Instead, you have to have it on that 12-sec scan cycle, and it is really annoying to hear the different "sound" of each room repeatedly.
- Also regarding the volume: you have to manually enter into the menu in order to adjust the level. Too time consuming for such a simple function.  A volume control should be on the side of the unit for quick access (with the ability to turn the volume completely down!!!)
- As I mentioned before, the two-way communication button is on the main display -- this can easily be accidentally hit, causing your kid to hear you when you don't want them to.  This feature should have been on the menu, not the main options.  Also, if you are in Scan Mode and are using the two-way communication for one room, it will still switch to the other room causing your other kid to abruptly hear your voice and possibly wake up. (!!!)
- (BTW, the two-way communication is terrible.  I tried it a couple of times when my husband was in my daughter's room, and he said he couldn't even tell what I was saying and it sounded freaky.  Nice.)
- An alarm feature?  Why would you want that on a monitor? I want my baby to SLEEP.  Sheesh.
- The on/off button is practically microscopic.  I have very small fingers and it takes me a couple of tries to get the unit off/on.  Not a huge deal, but annoying.

So, all-in-all, a great monitor with great quality sound and visual, but Motorola amazingly left off some very basic, basic features that would have made this monitor the King of All Monitors.  Such a shame since it would have been so manageable to accomplish this.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
15 of 16 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Best baby monitor, August 16, 2011                        By&nbsp;babymomma10   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         I've tried 3 different Summer Infant models, all had some negatives whether it was picture quality, functions, or overall faultiness. Also, for some reason all the Summer Infant cameras are noisy when they pan/scan which disrupts the baby.

This monitor has great picture quality and works wonderfully. Not surprised, Summer Infant does not specialize in electronics where as motorola does!                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (3)


//Review
25 of 30 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             Terrible Customer Service!!!!!, June 21, 2012                        By&nbsp;jmmgis   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola MBP36 Remote Wireless Video Baby Monitor with Infrared Night Vision and Zoom, 3.5 Inch (Baby Product)         I usually don't write a review unless the product is very good or I have had a really bad experience.  Well buying this product has been a really bad experience in terms of customer service.  First of all, I did a lot of research on baby monitors and thought this monitor would be great for us.  At first it was, but after only a few months the level of clarity diminished and before I returned it the night camera failed completely.  I understand some times there are defective products out there, mine was one.  But what really angers me is the time it took for Motorola to get back to me when I told them what my camera was doing.  From the time I contacted them about the defective monitor it took 4 days for someone to respond, in turn that person turned me over to another person and it took an additional 5 days for that person to contact me. Since it was taking so long through email I called them to try and expedite this, since I felt having a functional monitor again was very important to me and for the safety of my baby.  I spoke with a Motorola agent and they said I would have a return number in a couple hours and it took almost another day to get that just so I could mail out my defective monitor.  On top of that I had to pay shipping just to send it back.  Many companies I know allow me to print a return label online and they cover return fees. I am still waiting on my replacement almost a week after they received it and I had to contact them again just to make sure they had it because the tracking number said it was delivered.  Don't you think they would of let me know that they received it and had given me a delivery date?  This is a baby monitor, this is a product that is used for safety and monitoring the well being of your baby, you would think this process would be a little faster and urgent?  I am so disgusted with Motorola that I will never, ever buy another product from them.  I want to let customers know what I experienced so they don't have the same experience I had.

Update:  I am still waiting for a response from Motorola 11 days after they received my defective baby monitor on June 15th.  I've sent numerous emails and even called and no one has told me the status of when I should get the monitor.  I left a message with a team leader and I have yet to hear back.  This is unacceptable Motorola.

Update:  I finally received my new replacement baby monitor on July 2nd. I initially sent an email May 29th regarding my issue, so we are talking over a month before I received my replacement baby monitor.  That's unacceptable and I just wan't consumers to know about my experience, and I hope it doesn't happen to you.  I wish I could do something about it, companies need to be held accountable for such poor service or practices.  Another thing that bothers me is that I actually paid for shipping to send it and not once did Motorola say they were sorry for the delay or say they would take care of the shipping costs.  Motorola lost a customer for life and I will make sure and tell as many people as I can about my experience.

Update:  Greg Reichman VP of Sales contacted me because of my frustration and experience I had in getting a new monitor.  I was pleasantly surprised when he offered to send me another camera at no charge.  This is definitely a good gesture that will help get Motorola back in my good graces.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (9)


//Review
745 of 766 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Uninspired by iPhone, returned Galaxy Nexus, happy with Razr Maxx, January 31, 2012                        By&nbsp;D. Southern  (Miami, FL)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I thought I would upgrade to the iPhone 4S when I was eligible, but I felt blah about it.  Everyone around me has an iPhone, which they love, but there were things that excited me more about with the new Android phones.  I decided to go with the Galaxy Nexus because of its stellar reviews and high rankings on phone lists.  I liked the screen size and resolution, and Android 4.0 is wonderful.  However, the connectivity to service was awful.  I lost service when making a call when walking out of the Verizon store -- and in a major metropolitan area.  I lost service on almost every call I made after that, which was frustrating and disappointing.  The change the SIM card at Verizon, which didn't change anything.  Service was moderately better on 3G, but I still had problems, so I decided to return it.  In addition, the battery life was very short, and it got uncomfortably hot while talking on it during the few times I was able to do so.

The day after I bought the Galaxy Nexus, the Razr Maxx was released, but, since I could only do one return at Verizon, I was hesitant to try another 4G phone.  I was resigned to get the iPhone 4S, thinking it was the safe option (upgrades, streamlined opeeration, iTunes, etc.).  But, after having the Galaxy Nexus for two days, the iPhone felt so small and heavy, and I knew I couldn't use the widgets that I enjoy with Android.  It's silly, but I wanted to be excited about getting a new phone, and I wasn't excited about the iPhone.

While the salesman was returning the Galaxy Nexus and preparing to set me up on the iPhone 4S, I wandered over to the Razr Maxx display.  I liked it very much, so I decided to take a chance on another 4G phone, and I have been very happy with my decision.

SCREEN:  I just prefer the bigger screen of the current line of Android phones of iPhone.  The Razr Maxx screen may not have the much lauded pixel density of the iPhone 4/4S or the Galaxy Nexus, but it is very bright, and I barely notice a difference.

CONNECIVITY:  No problems.  And 4G really is very fast.  I use it at home instead of WiFi since I was grandfather into an unlimited data plan.

PROCESSOR:  Very quick.  Just an occasional hick-up when going back to the home screen, probably due to the calendar and weather clock widgets I have running there.  Not a big deal, and it may improve with ICS.

OPERATING SYSTEM:  No, it doesn't have Ice Cream Sandwich, but I am coming from Froyo, and this is much better.  I can live happily with it until the ICS update arrives.  Also, I am a Google fan, and I would have a difficulty time without navigation from Google Maps, which is something a friend who switched from the original Droid to iPhone misses greatly.

BUILD:  I love how it feels.  Much more comfortable that the Razr.  I'm not using a cover on it yet, and may not put one one due to the great build quality (Kevlar, Gorilla Glass).  However, I did put on a screen protector, "just in case!"

And finally, BATTERY:  Fantastic.  I was so conditioned by my old phone -- and even by two days with the Galaxy Nexus -- to constantly worry about the battery, but I worry no longer.  I easily get through a day with moderate to heavy use, and the batter has yet to go below 30%.  For me, it's worth it.

I did research ad nauseum when my upgrade was approaching.  I learned that no phone is perfect and no phone is for everyone.  This one spoke to me, and I am enjoying it very much!                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (24)


//Review
315 of 326 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Sets a minimum standard for all my future smartphones, February 26, 2012                        By&nbsp;Daniel   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I was one of the first users to have the original HTC Droid Incredible; in fact, I pre-ordered it from Verizon before it came out and had it a day before it was released in stores, so I had the earliest model with the beautiful AMOLED screen (as opposed to the Super LED).  My experience was very good with my Incredible: I had the slim extended battery from Seido (battery life still sucked), my Incredible worked smoothly with no bugs, the 8mp camera was pretty decent, it had plenty of space, and its 1gz processor was always fast enough to run anything I wanted.  I saw a lot of Verizon android phones come out over the past 2 years that were sub-par to my Incredible.  As a power user, I needed something that improved on battery life, had at least the same screen quality, had a dual core processor (to fight obsolescence), and had plenty of space.  This phone has outperformed all my expectations.

BATTERY: First of all, the battery life is this phone's biggest selling point.  During my first day of use, I turned OFF the wifi and used 4gLTE (which is FAST!) because I have the unlimited plan for Verizon.  I spent much of the day downloading all my old apps and setting up school email and personalizing all my settings.  I also got engaged to my girlfriend on the same day, so one can imaging all the texting I did and picture messaging of the ring and all.  We went out late to celebrate and I used it lightly while out showing off my new phone and its features and when I got home, I still had 25% battery!  Just as the reviews report, the battery on this thing really out-does itself.  What is even more impressive is I do not have a lump sticking out of the back due to an extended battery.

SCREEN: I have no problem with it.  It is a beautiful display and is slightly better than my old Droid Incredible AMOLED display.  The best part about it is I do not need to turn down the settings like brightness and screen timeout like I did to conserve on battery.  Some reviewers have compared this screen to the beautiful screens of the Samsung Droid Nexus and iPhone4s, which both have 300+ pixel/inch density.  Sure, you MIGHT notice a difference if you were to put them side by side on same photo.  However, I do not notice anything in terms of a lack of quality or really see any pixels.  Coming from my old Incredible (which has the same AMOLED tech), this has a very slightly better pixels/inch and remains beautiful to look at and easy on my eyes.  Also to note, it has a Corning Gorilla Glass screen.  This is the same glass screen covering as the iPhone4s and makes it extremely hard.  I'm still using a screen cover because I do not want to chance anything.

PROCESSOR: The Razr MAXX has a 1.2gz dual core processor.  My old Incredible had a single core 1gz snapdragon processor, which ran things smoothly.  After using the Razr Maxx, I can tell the difference.  The same games, apps, and video feel like they run like butter. The Droid Incredible would have a very slight lag before it ran something fast and smooth. The Droid Razr does not have that lag.  There are other phones that have a dual core 1.5gz processor; honestly, there really should not be any difference in performance that one notices.

CAMERA: Wow, great camera on this thing.  I proposed to my girl friend at the local Botanical Gardens and the camera takes amazing photos both close up and far away.  Digital zoom is excellent and the best part is NO SHUTTER LAG! When you press the snap button, BAM! That's the picture you get! There is no holding the phone steady as you wait for it to capture the photo. I can't be more pleased.

SMART ACTIONS: Great job Motorola! Take a moment to check out the Smart Actions features.  This allows you to program your Droid Razr Maxx (or regular Razr) to automatically change settings or launch applications. When I showed this to my fiance's brother, who is a big iPhone user, his eyebrows raised and he was impressed.
For example:
- I set my phone so when I arrive at my work's address, my phone will automatically go into vibrate mode.
- I set my phone so it makes all text messages/email notifications quiet during my sleeping hours during work nights
- My phone automatically puts the screen dimmer and turns off sync when battery reaches below 25%
- My phone now notifies me to charge it at night if it is below 25% battery life
- *This program does pretty much whatever you want.  If you have done programming, you might know what a "macro" is. It is a macro creation tool.  In short, it allows you complete automatic control over your phone. It is EXTREMELY easy to use, especially if you choose from the large sample list of tasks.

SPACE: Advertises as a total of 32gb.  Need I say more?  The system reserves 8gb  for its own use, it leaves 8gb of internal memory for user use, and it comes with a 16 gb MicroSD card.  In reality, the user gets 24 gb of space, which is pretty good.

KEYBOARD: Has a standard android software keyboard.  I prefer the Swype keyboard, which comes preinstalled on it.  Make sure you check it out, it is the FASTEST keyboard to use out there (Faster than iPhone or other keyboards on the Market).  To use it, when you go to type in a text field, long press the field until a menu pops up, select on that menu "Input Method", then select "Swype".  Swype allows you to drag your fingers through all your letters of words instead of individual presses.  Quite fast once you get used to it (which does not take long).

SOFTWARE: Currently runs Android 2.3 Gingerbread.  This is one of the latest versions and it runs very smooth.  The Razr Maxx will be upgraded in 2012 to Android 4.0, which will pretty much make this into a whole new phone.  Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwhich (codename) will redefine how Android and raise the bar for competition (iPhone, Windows phone).  I will not explain how important this will be for the Droid Razr, so if you are interested in this be sure to Google Android 4.0's new features and changes/reviews.

In summary, if you are trying to decide to get this phone versus another, get the Droid Razr Maxx.  I do not think you will be disappointed.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (9)


//Review
265 of 282 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Ever Ready, January 27, 2012                        By&nbsp;paul arbor  (Jersey City, NJ United States)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         This is the best phone i have ever owned period, it was an upgrade from the first generation Droid (which i was generally  happy with).

Pros:
- The 4.3 inch Super AMOLED Screen is gorgeous, colors are brilliant and the blacks are deep & rich.
- Voice quality is outstanding, no matter what else it does, this is still a phone and the primary feature for me.
- SPEED, this may be true for all Verizon 4G LTE phones. Downloads are blazing fast. You can easily enjoy movies, sports, or videos without interruption.
- THE BATTERY is simply ridiculous. I have always had an issue with batteries and often carried a spare. While it is true the battery is not removable, i need to repeat myself... it is simply ridiculous. Today i ran video, audio and calls on & off all day and still have juice to spare (granted its new).
- It is not an Apple, i like choice in my life and am growing concerned about Apple's market dominance. I enjoy and am delighted to support options.
- Build - this is a solid phone with Gorilla Glass front and Kevlar backing,  (note i am 6' so i have to laugh when people say this is to big a phone, like gloves, I guess it depends on your hand size).
- 32 GB - 16 GB internal & 16 GB on a Micro SD minus the normal OS requirements
- Duel Core chips.
- Idiot guides for those who have a disdain for instructions. They walk you through smart actions which extend battery life and reduce the need to manage daily functions.
- Smart camera / audio slide with out necessitating needless menus and turning on off the phone.
- Audio nice sound / player & the 4 G LTE allows for excellent streaming via Pandora, Spotify, Google music, Amazon or anything but i-tunes.
- No slide out keyboard, a feature i did not like about the original Droid.

Cons:
- There is a learning curve esp comming from my original Droid.
- Price is this  model worth 50-100 more (than the Droid RAZR) for what is essentially just a bigger battery? YES, YES it is.
- Odd curved corners not as elegant as some of the new phones e.g., the samsung G3.
- 1.2 Mhz processor wish it was 1.5 (although i don't really know what the difference would be but more, more, more = future proof on these things).
- Camera is only adaquite esp in low light it could be better.

At the end of the day nothing is perfect and each new season will surely see newer /better phones but i am very happy with this model.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (3)


//Review
79 of 83 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Reliable, Powerful Phone, February 3, 2012                        By&nbsp;Rich1   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I have had my Razor for a little over a week now, I had a Nexus phone that had many issues. I live in the DFW area and I travel alot so I need a reliable phone, having said that here is why I like the Razor Maxx. The Brand new Nexus phone kept loosing signal, it didn't matter if I was moving or not; The Razor Maxx show 3 to 4 bars constantly and hasn't dropped the signal once. The Nexus ate the battery at an alarming rate, the Razor Maxx will take you to a place you have never been, I went two days without charging an android smart phone. I even tried streaming a movie to see what would happen to the battery, It drained 30%.  Just to be fair the Nexus and the Razor both have beautifull screen, Now listen to this (The speaker on the Nexus is crap), The Razor speaker is excellent and powerful. When I used the bluetooth link with the Nexus there was a high pitch shrill soud, no such sound with the Razor.  The razor looks and feels Like a quality piece of equipment. The Razor has an HDMI out that works great. I am so pleased with the look, the feel, and the speed, and so far the reliabilty of the connection. You will not be disapointed!
P.S. The Nexus phone pretty much stayed in 3g mode as I drove around Dallas the Razor Maxx stays in 4g most of the time, Same city diffent performance HUM!                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
149 of 165 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             solid phone, February 19, 2012                        By&nbsp;bookaholic  (Washington Court House, Ohio)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         Ok, so I bought the new Razr Maxx and received it Feb 17.

Performance:  The first day I had it, I set it up, let it charge, then unplugged it and the test was on.  From 3pm until 7am, I listened to music both streaming and stored media, played games, downloaded apps, searched the web, watched Youtube, and talked on the phone.  With all that, I got nearly 16 hours of battery life.  I finally had to plug it in at 10 percent so I could make a phone call.  Conclusion?  Other reviewers weren't kidding about the battery in this thing.  This battery kicks butt.  The screen is gorgeous and very sharp; the Gorilla glass is very smooth and somehow keeps the fingerprints to a minimum.  Not sure how that is achieved but I like it.  Set up was easy but it's worth noting that it is not possible to use your regular SIM card in this phone; you'll receive a micro SIM card to set up 4G service.  I'm not wild about the SIM/SD card port on the side of the phone.  It's stiff and hard to open and you really have to hold on to it in order to take out the cards.  I feel like if I grab it too hard I'll pull it off the phone, so be careful if you have to change out SD cards or something.  Go easy on the little door.  That said, the phone does not have a flimsy feel to it with the rubber textured Kevlar back and case and Gorilla glass screen.  So many times, when phones are made "lighter" they feel cheap and have a correspondingly cheap case that scratches all to hell and back or cracks or something else.  I don't think that will be the case with this phone. I do however look forward to when a silicone case is made for this phone because the case has a slick feeling to it and I worry that one day it will slide off the counter or out of my hand and - god forbid - fall on the floor.  It's possible to connect your phone to your TV and play your games on it or connect the HDMI to watch movies, but I'm not sure if I'll ever use it for that.

Apps and Media:  I like the fact that there are fewer bloatware apps on this than on my Incredible 2 from Verizon.  Some of the apps on here give you the option of deleting them, like GoToMeeting and NFL 12.  Will never use those, so they were deleted.  I kinda miss the FM Radio app from my Incredible 2, but there's iHeartRadio for those odd moments I want to hear the radio so that's good enough.  It's possible to hide from view apps that you will never use but that cannot be uninstalled or frozen unless you root your phone.  I really like that feature and proceeded to hide all the VZW media/tones/etc crap that bills me extra.  It's an Android phone and there are free apps that do the same thing better.  Ice Cream Sandwich is slated for this phone but according to Motorola's website, the date is yet to be announced.  Meanwhile, I updated the software and now have Android 2.3.6.  The phone I purchased comes with a 16GB memory card but I had one with my Incredible, so I just swapped it out.  Not sure if I'll ever need to go to 32GB seeing as how it has 16GB of onboard memory (that's crazy!) but I'm glad the option is there.  A really useful and interesting app is called Smart Actions.  My god, someone made an app that's just like the Automator app on Macs.  This will configure for you different actions on your phone based on a set of criteria that you choose.  If you want the phone to go silent while you sleep, you can set a time that will happen and a time that the ringer will be turned back on.  I work 3rd shift so I turn the ringer off usually, but no more!  I have already set this up and it will do that task for me on days and times I specify.  It will also configure your phone to maximize battery life and prompt you to activate the Smart Actions when the battery gets low.  It will do other things for your phone too, but I haven't checked out all the possibilities yet.

General:  The microUSB port is on the top of the phone instead of on the side or somewhere else stupid.  Finally!  Can't tell you how frustrating it is to plug the phone up in my car and have the charger sticking out of the side of the device to where I can't put it in a dock while I drive.  Also, there is the HDMI port located right next to the microUSB.

So far, I am really enjoying the phone.  It's sharp to look at but it's beauty is more than skin deep.  It's a perfect combo of form and function.  I'm happy with 4G service in areas where I spend the majority of my time and in areas where I only get 3G at best (at home), then I can use my WiFi and get some blistering speed - all data free.  Oh! and yes, I was lucky enough to get on with Verizon before they ended their unlimited data plan, so now I have unlimited data with 4G service.  Nice.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (2)


//Review
35 of 36 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Get over this screen crap, March 3, 2012                        By&nbsp;Kinchas  (Maryland)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         My comments address two areas.  The quality of the Maxx screen.  And the impact of so much battery power.

First the screen quality.  I am totally amazed and impressed with the screen on my Maxx.  Colors look perfect.  The screen is bright and text is easy to read.  And black is BLACK.  From a CNET post..[...]..."We comment on the depth of black a TV is capable of producing. Since deeper, "blacker" blacks lead to more-realistic pictures, higher contrast, and more "pop" and color saturation, we consider black level the most important single performance characteristic of a TV".  From CNET's January 26, 2012 review of the Maxx...."Colors were rich and deep, and blacks were endless".  The test of black levels is how much contrast there is in the black on your phone's screen and the black bezel next to it.  On the Maxx, in all but the most severe lighting..you have to look hard to see where the black of the bezel ends and the screen begins.  That said...auto brightness can throw things off.  All amoled screens suffer when brightness levels drop.

Real world comparisons.  I took my Maxx to my local Verizon store to compare with other high end smart phones. Specifically, the two phones most sited as the top screens...the Galaxy Nexus and the iPhone 4s. Side by side, looking at a variety of screen uses..the Nexus looked superior, followed by the 4s and then the Maxx.  But here's the thing..not by a lot.  The range between the 3 was pretty small.  And separate the three, and the difference seemed even smaller.  Pretty fine frog hairs here. With a lot of the difference falling in the range of personal preference.

There has been a lot of stuff thrown out there about the Maxx's pentile aberrations.  Brian Klug in his [...] review..credits the Maxx with pretty low levels of aberrations..because of a change in the pentile setup that the Maxx uses.  To quote "Subjectively I'd even say that the RAZR has less characteristic PenTile grain than the RGBW LCD variants I've seen recently".

Bottom line. Is the Maxx screen slightly less beautiful than the Nexus/4s? Yes..slightly.  That said..the Maxx screen does not fall short by enough when taken as a part of the phone as a whole.  That leads me to the real strength of this phone.

Battery performance.  The usefulness and value of any smart phone is whether it is able to be there when you need it...to do the things you want it to do...at any given moment. Not matter all the other wonderful attributes a phone may possess, if it out of juice and won't run...its got a major flaw. And that extends to having to restrict and baby your phone to avoid running out of battery.  I was not aware of this until the Maxx.  When you start out the morning with a fully charged Maxx...and for the rest of the day...you don't self limit the use of your phone for fear of running out of battery before the end of the day...a world of possibilities open up. What are these possibilities...they will be different for every user...that's the beauty and importance of this kind of battery life.  The smart phones of 2012 have hardware and software capabilities that that make them true marvels.  Don't hamstring all that your phone can to for you because of inadequate battery performance.

So if the screen is a little less perfect compared to phone X and pictures are little perfect than phone Y, do yourself a favor and let battery performance offset some of these things. You will NOT regret it.

UPDATE: I have been using my Maxx for awhile. In my original post I only commented on screen quality and battery life.  The speed of this phone is great.  Even though I only have 3g in my area...because of the faster processor speed...browsing is noticeably faster.  I am turning to my Maxx to surf much more often than my Droid X. When I am in a 4g area...surfing is fantastic. Battery life is still the greatest.  Even with daily music streaming using bluetooth (a real battery killer for my Droid X), surfing the web, movies occasionally, games, calls etc...I have not had less than 30% battery life at the end of the day.  I continue to be impressed with the screen quality.  Color accuracy and saturation are perfect. It is not quite as bright as the Galaxy Nexus...but plenty bright just the same.  The one thing that is a step down from my Droid X is 5 homepages vs 7 on the X.  I had my hompages perfectly tuned on the X.  I have used files to convert back to 5 homepages...and that is working fine.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (4)


//Review
35 of 37 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Easily the best phone I've owned., February 1, 2012                        By&nbsp;D. Hentze  (United States)  - See all my reviews
 (VINE VOICE)   &nbsp;&nbsp; (TOP 500 REVIEWER)   &nbsp;&nbsp; (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I was hanging on to my 3G Droid X because just about all the 4G phones recently released had mediocre battery life even with their extended batteries. When the Razr Maxx was announced, it immediately caught my attention. As soon as I saw it in the Verizon Store, I was hooked. It's hard to believe how they squeezed a 3300mAh battery into a phone this thin. Not only is the phone still very thin, it actually feels better in my hand than the standard Razr Maxx. As for it's performance, I find it excellent all around. Call quality is excellent. Radio reception is very good. The phone does come with Android 2.3 Gingerbread which is a disappointment, but Android 4.0 ICS should be right around the corner. The usual "Motoblur" UI is still there too, but it's not as bad as in the past. The phone also comes with some unwanted bloatware, but supposedly it can all be removed if wanted when Android 4.0 comes out. The rear camera takes very good pictures in good light, and fair at best pictures indoors under poor light. I've taken a few seconds of test video, but from what I can tell, it is good. The 4.3-inch Super AMOLED screen is in my opinion very good. I've seen some mixed reviews on it, and I'm sure there are better displays out there, but I have no problem with it. It's bright. Text is clear, and colors are accurate. Battery life is excellent, and even better than expected. I've gone 2 days of moderate to heavy usage, and I still have 40% left. Amazing. All in all, I totally love the DROID RAZR MAXX, and highly recommend it. It's not totally perfect, but comes as close as any phone I've ever owned.

Pros:
Spectacular battery life.
Excellent call quality.
Very good radio reception.
Very fast 4G LTE data performance.
Thin and lightweight.
Dual-core 1.2 GHz processor.
16GB internal memory, and 16GB microSD card included.

Cons:
No Android 4.x ICS yet.
Phone takes up to 3 hours to fully charge.
Mediocre camera performance in poor light.
qHD 540x960 display might disappoint some.
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Update 6/23/12:
I just received the Android 4.04 ICS update. An already great phone just got better. The phone seems faster, and you can either uninstall or disable most of the included bloatware.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (2)


//Review
48 of 53 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             Grrr, no sound!, May 17, 2012                        By&nbsp;F. Nightingale  (Hercules, CA)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I chose this phone because of the great reviews, but mainly because of the impressive battery life. For 6 weeks I had no problems and was very happy with this phone, until the speaker started cutting out. I looked at other complaints about this, and it did actually help to put pressure on the area just beneath the speaker on the back as suggested on other websites. Well, this worked for a short time, and I found that I had to do this several times a day. Finally, after 2 weeks of this, there is no sound at all from the speakers. If I use headphones, it's fine. The only way that I know someone is calling me is when I put the phone on vibrate-no ring tone. I lost all of my music and data, because Verizon asked my to do a factory reset, which of course didn't help to solve the problem. I didn't have insurance, but I would probably get a refurbished phone anyway, since it was past 30 days. So I've sent it in to Motorola, because it does have a warranty of 1 year. Hopefully, they will able to repair the problem which seems to be affecting many Razr Maxx owners. I'm generally happy with this phone and would have given it 5 stars if it weren't for the speaker problem.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
22 of 22 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             stupid crazy fast and -amazon smack down price vs verizon, June 29, 2012                        By&nbsp;Alexis   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         The usual praise as I have read before I bought;  incredibly fast, good reception, streaming is stupid-crazy and no dropped connections.  I am in the mountains so this is a must.  The smart app is interesting but needs better instructions, too confusing to set up.  Perhaps i am just lazy and haven't put in the required time to figure it out.  One step at a time.  The phone is light weight and feels great to hold. I use it all day, usually online and the battery last for an easy 14 hours.  I took out my old 16gb card from the Droidx and put it into this updated one and had those apps ready to run.

Now, here is what really impressed me...more of a kudos to Amazon and a money saver for anyone if thinking of buying...I wanted to upgrade my phone before deadline with Verizon so I could continue with the unlimited data.  It would be grandfathered in...and thankfully I was due an upgrade.  I first went to Verizon site, price of phone to update was 199 and then you would get the honor of paying Verizon and additional 30 dollars for a phone they don't even own. Just kill me.

So I needed to check out some things with the Razr Maxx and my accessories from my original Droidx.  Two days later I go to the Verizon store.  Get all my answers and am ready to purchase.  I am told the price has jumped from 199 to 299.  In two days???  I show the store Amazon's price , bringing it up on their computer.  Nope..won't match it.  Go home, call Verizon and am told IF I buy from a 3rd party no guarantee I get the same benefits, package and would have several restrictions.  My 4th call to Verizon that same day, I finally get a representative that tells me honestly that I'll receive the same upgraded package upon activation.

Bottom line, I got the phone for a hundred less, no 30 dollar excess phone fee, no activation fee as it was an upgrade and no tax.  The extra condition...i had to remain with carrier for 6 months or receive a fine.  As I just signed a 2 year contract seemed to be a moot point. If you are looking to buy a phone, definitely look at other 3rd party sources because the carriers will take and take and take.  Don't reward bad behavior.

The one truly negative on this phone is the god-awful camera.  It's too dark to see what you are viewing on screen. Using the zoom is pointless unless the phone is on a tripod because any tiny shake and the picture is blurred.  The video is a little better but still worthless in the day because again, the viewing is so dark you aren't certain what you are shooting.  I hope this upgrade to Ice Cream will address this issue. Verizon has started rolling out the upgrade from Gingerbread to ICS.  Over all, for 200, this phone is an absolute bargain. Solid, multi-functional and an entire entertainment center held right in your hand.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment (1)


//Review
47 of 54 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Close Call, January 28, 2012                        By&nbsp;Joseph Mccullough   - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola DROID RAZR MAXX 4G Android Phone, Black 32GB  (Verizon Wireless) (Wireless Phone)         I'm coming from a Droid Incredible(a phone with few glithches until the updates), i did alot of reading about the Razr, Rezound, and Nexus. They all had positive reviews but usually it was the Nexus that got the edge. This was mainly due to the fact it had ICS. So i went to the verizon store and played with all three(plus the Spectrum). Quick findings
Rezound: Very familiar feel and operation. Nice screen but bulkly(with reported bad battery life an extended battery is not an option for me). Camera was fast and took good pics.

Nexus: Best looking phone, camera was fast and took good pics. ICS seemed weird but it was fast. Samsung Screen impressive once again. No sdcard is tough to live with. Not heavy at all.

Spectrum: Feels cheap. The UI isn't the best in the world. Very light. Takes great pics. Honestly i was just worried because its a LG phone. They have not been very good so far.

Rar Maxx: Nice solid feel. Very nice screen. Very zippy. The camera was dissappointing. But the idea of a super battery and reports of ICS builds coming out soon, it was hard to pass up.

Anyway, i have had the MAXX for about 24hrs now. I haven't cycled the battery though. So i really can't comment on the battery. But it seems like the real deal so far

Pros:
Big Sharp screen.
UI not quite as useful as Sense UI but it looks Much better
Easy access to SD/SIM cards
Uses standard micro usb cord
Signal is strong( I don't live in a 4G LTE area though)
Good call quality

Cons:
As far as I know lack of FTP support over bluetooth
Camera still isn't very good(But i think its a software thing thus can be improved)
A ton a bloatware!
Price! (I realize some patience goes a long way. By next month it probably be $149 - $199)
Screen Bezel. Its too thick. When typing in landscape i find myself tapping the bezel and not the space key. I thought the screen was being unresponsive.
Developer Support - I'm not a developer but i look to them for help alot. Motorola hasn't been too cooperative with the Razr's

Overall - Good phone. Verizon needs to stop with these $299 phones. (I know.... i got it like an idiot!) If you get this phone i don't think you will be dissappointed. Motorola is really supporting this phone. Its sad LG got the best TV commerical though (R2D2 vs Spectrum lol)                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment (1)


//Review
99 of 100 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Tackles Terrain Like a Champ!, October 27, 2011                        By&nbsp;Amy Tanathorn "Follow me on Pinterest, too!"  (Bay Area, CA)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)                    				                                                                                                                                      Length:: 7:50 Mins

 Overall, the Trekko is a great stroller. I like the sun canopy and the ease of going over different types of terrain. The infant seat enclosure is a nice touch and the recline is easy. There are a couple of things I wish the stroller had, and one issue with a wobbling wheel, which I demonstrate to you in this video review.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (6)


//Review
17 of 19 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             We Love It, November 4, 2011                        By&nbsp;Noelle "N80"   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         I got this stroller after doing a ton of research.  It was the right price for me.  I am a casual jogger and didn't need a BOB for what the BOBs cost.  My 2yo daughter loves it.  We have multiple strollers and she always requests this one.  The canopy is great.  It shields from sun and wind and there is a eek a boo window that I love.  The wheels are extremely sturdy.  They go smoothly over gravel and large rocks.  I live in a desert climate so the surfaces are not smooth, but this stroller feels like they are.  It fits into the trunk of my Toyota Corolla.  You can easily fix the wheel in front to go straight only or to swivel.  It's just a push of a button.  The basket is huge.

On my second or third outing, while I was actually jogging, the front wheel began to wobble.  No problem, I just detached it, turned it around, and re-attached it.  No more wobbling after that.  Now any time it happens, about once every five times, I take the front wheel off, turn it 180 degrees, then reattach it and that stops the wobbling for good.  I'm really impressed because I read SO many complaints about jogging strollers wobbling, and I thought it was a curse of any jogging stroller under $300.

I love that I can use this again with the next baby because it accepts Graco car seats.

Problem one, this monster is quite heavy.  But that is typical for joggers.  I don't have any trouble with it because it's extremely easy to fold and unfold, but it is not practical for light use.  That is why I am going to replace my now-broken umbrella stroller with a Graco Liteway.  My daughter and I use our strollers an awful lot so I need the two. This is not the stroller I choose to keep in my trunk for trips to the mall, or for the walk to daycare.  It is just too bulky.  I prefer to keep it in the garage and use it for long walks with the dog in our neighborhood and the occasional jog.  It's wonderful for that.  I can steer it with one hand while I play with my phone.

Another problem is that if I put too much stuff in the basket, it detaches.  No problem, it's easy to fix.  But I didn't want to carry my purse.  My purse was really heavy that day.  It had my work laptop in it.  So I will be purchasing a stroller hook for that.

Also I'm bummed that it doesn't have a snack tray for my daughter.  I bought a detachable cup holder for her, but I don't really like it because it doesn't stay in place.  The only thing I would change about this stroller is that I would add a snack tray.

So for the price I give this 5 stars.  I paid about 145 for it.  Had I spent 200 or more I would have given it four stars for not having a snack tray for baby.  Other than that it's pretty great for jogging and/or long walks.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment (1)


//Review
25 of 30 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             NOT a true terrain stroller, December 30, 2011                        By&nbsp;Miguel A. Aguilar "caliconnect619"  (San Diego , CA USA)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         After my call with a supervisor from Graco I came to find out, the video that Amazon has up is NOT the same stroller that's being sold in the US, it's the european model. The Trekko came out in Europe first and there are some key features they did not want to included on the US model for whatever reasons.
This stroller doesn't even have shocks or suspensions so I emailed & asked how can this be a TRUE all terrain stroller. My reply was "No, The wheels do not have shock absorbers. Please lock wheels". But even when they were lock you could still feel them wobble.

-CONS-
For NOT being a jogging stroller (in manuel-reads-not to be used for jogging) it's VERY bulky.
The material doesn't seem like the breathable kind , which means your child will be uncomfortable.
Yes, it's heavy but not much of a difference compare to Jeep's line of strollers.
The mechanism to drop the basket up & down is very poorly made.
Front wheel wobbles even when in lock mode, it's fine when your walking at a slow pace but brisk walking is a no go.
There is this huge gap between the push handle and stroller itself.
Weak amount of cushion and seatback is hard...................
On the bumper bar there is the metal piece with a bolt/screw that just sticks out. NOT safe, if you go over a bump your child could hit it or if they like to rest thier feet on the bar they will surely scrap the skin off. On the video (Europe model) it shows this padded flap piece to cover it up. Graco claims its expose for the carseat, well if you order the travel system version I can see how ideal that will be but if your child will not be in a carseat I don't see how that can be safe. Yes some can throw tape over it or what not but the point is, you shouldn't have to.
AND you all already know the con about no kids tray or cup holder.

-PROS-
Sleek design
The seat sits upright and is higher up then most strollers which is one of the reasons I wanted it. Going over gravel or a walk after the rain meant debris wouldn't be spit up from the wheels into my child's face.
Lever for the seat recline is nice-no draw strings unlike others
I like that the canopy has a huge mesh peek a boo window just right, so when you have the shade all the way down, your child can still see the world without feeling like he/she is in the dark.

-Overall-
I wish the cons didn't outweight the pros and that the stroller would of had an adjustable footrest along with at least a snack tray for the little ones.
If the stroller was maybe under $90 I would of did some tweaking to it and kept it.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (6)


//Review
6 of 6 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             Perfect competition for a BOB and for active families, December 30, 2011                        By&nbsp;Daniel J. Letourneau  (CHAMPLIN, MN, US)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         We had purchased a standard Graco travel system and after a couple of uses on nonpaved trails, we decided to purchase a B.O.B. stroller from REI. Darn things are spendy! Luckily, just prior to purchasing it, we found this Trekko on the Graco UK site and it was now being carried by Target. At 1/3 to 2/3 the price of a B.O.B we could make it work.

Positives:
-Snug ride 35 fits into it perfectly and has lots of sunshade protection.
-Nice wide stable platform for hiking trails and rough ground.
-Not some funky weird color that will be dated looking next week.
-Large basket that supports a pretty good amount of weight.
-PLENTY of air circulation for hot weather.
-One foot locking that is actually sturdy
-Long enough from handle to rear tires that tall people will not always be hitting it with their feet.

Negatives:
-Could stand to have the basket latch redesigned to lock firmer and have both sides lock (sometimes only one side locks into place)
-Moveable backrest could also stand to have a latch redesign for the same reasons above
-Overall length and width. Graco could have shaved about 4 inches of the length and width. With that being done it would make it much easier to handle in tight areas.

Modifications:
Since it is shaped like a B.O.B. some items fit. We added the items below and LOVE how they made the Trekko a perfect stroller for an outdoor family.

B.O.B Wind protector single - hooks onto the from wheel and the straps to hold in the carseat allow for the sides to be tightened up. We did had two pieces of velco to allow the top straps of the wind protector to be attached to the stroller canopy. Our daughter no longer has to worry about cold walks to day care in 15 degree weather. Keeps her nice and warm when combined with normal cold weather stroller items.
BOB Weather Shield For Single Revolution/Stroller Strides Models in Gray

Handle Tray- This is the same vendor that makes them for B.O.B. the center zippered pouch is huge and holds a large nalgene bottle without issue.Colors of logo are grey so it does not stand out much at all. Jolly Jumper Stroller Caddy - Stroller Handlebar Organizer

Reflective tape-  Added two long strips of silver reflective tape along the side rails as Grace has zero areas of reflectors on it and we often go for early morning and late evening walks.BOB Weather Shield For Single Revolution/Stroller Strides Models in Gray                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
3 of 3 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             I love this stroller!, August 30, 2012                        By&nbsp;tappen17   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         When I found out that I was expecting, I began researching all the baby products I wanted.  When it came to strollers I knew I wanted a 3 wheel stroller as they are more maneuverable.  I watched a video review of this stroller and decided that it was the one I wanted.  It was a bit pricey (almost as much as my crib!) but I figured it'd be worth the money.  And it sorta is.

The things I love about it: it is so easy to push.  I can push it with one hand and even turn it with one hand.  It folds down easily.  I love the multiple seating positions.  My son is now 3 months old, so I've mostly used the laying down/flat position.  Now that he getting more control I've been able to raise it into a recline position so he can see out.  I like how there is a flap at the end to keep him safely inside when its in the flat position.  In fact, before I got my crib my son slept in the stroller (don't judge).  It worked great.  :D I love how the seat is cushioned so its comfortable and the straps are padded so its comfortable on his shoulders.  The straps are also easy to buckle.  I love the big basket at the bottom.  I live across the street from Target and am able to just take the stroller and carry my shopping bags in the basket on my way home.  I like that my Graco car seat can also snap in, though honestly I haven't used this feature.  I'm not sure I ever will but its nice to have the option.

Things I don't love quite as much: the size.  Even when it is folded down it takes up most of my trunk space in my Honda Civic.  I haven't had the need yet to take it anywhere (because any long walking we use our infant carrier) but I'm worried about the size when I do. Also, I live on the 3rd floor so it is tricky getting it up and down the stairs.  It isn't heavy per say but it is big and awkward.  it takes two hands and I cant do that while holding a baby.  So when I want to take it out I have to have someone help me or stay in with the baby while I take it down. I also wasn't a huge fan of the price.  Like I said, it was almost as much as my crib.  Once I have another baby I'll have to get rid of it for a double and I'm wondering if it will be worth it.  Though it is pretty fancy, so the price is understandable.

Overall, I love this stroller.  I love the way it feels when I push it.  It is like a hot knife through butter ;) I wish it weren't so big, but what can you do? If you are an avid jogger, you'll like this stroller.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
3 of 3 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             Design Flaw making item defective, August 15, 2012                        By&nbsp;dayers   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         I have received two of these with the same issue.  I will be returning the second for a refund as Graco clearly has an issue to address with this stroller.  The latch that locks the stroller closed for storage is so short that it holds the item so tight on the right side that it is crushing the basket mechanism causing it to break at the holder.  Each time I opened the stroller I had to pull the basket into the proper position which ended with clear indication that eventually the basket will simply not hold up and will be useless.  Hold off buying this until Graco fixes this issue. I would have liked the item other than the defect.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
2 of 2 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             Misleading appearance/ continues to disappoint, June 20, 2012                        By&nbsp;tty35   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         We purchased this stroller thinking we could use it for jogging and trail walking. We were mislead by the 3 wheel appearance which is similar to jogging strollers and some discussions online about the all terrain capability. Come to find out 6 months later that the all terrain was on the European model not the US model. When I contacted Graco, they confirmed that the stroller was for sidewalk walking only. I tried jogging with it anyway and quickly realized it was much too bumpy and rattled too much at the faster speed. It also is very bumpy on anything but the smoothest sidewalks. The stroller is very large and difficult to use in most indoor spaces like stores, restaurants and doctor's offices. There really is no padding to speak of in the seat and there is no cup holder. The few positives are the large basket underneath, the easy open and close features, the large 180 canopy and the window to look into the stroller when pushing. I will be buying a BOB soon for jogging and probably an umbrella stroller for trips out with the baby which I wish I had done to start with.

Additional info:

My daughter is now 10 months and I've started putting her directly into the stroller rather than in her infant seat clicked to the stroller.  Again I find the design of the stroller very poor.  The seat has four recline positions going from fully reclined to fully upright.  Unless I put the seat in the fully upright position, my daughter is leaned back at an uncomfortable incline and strains to pull herself to a sitting position.  But with the seat fully upright, she sits so far forward that the canopy no longer offers any shade unless the sun is behind her.  In other strollers the seat is recessed so that the canopy can come over the top of the baby's head but not for this stroller in the position I described.

Now that she is outgrowing her infant seat and we don't need the stroller to snap the seat into anymore I will be putting this stroller up for sale on Craigslist and using my BOB as my every day stroller.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
2 of 2 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Not my everyday stroller but great for all terrain excursions, November 19, 2011                        By&nbsp;Denise Thomasson  (Virginia)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         First, I'll start with the positives: I love the large canopy. When used in conjunction with myGraco Snugride 35 Infant Car Seat, Rittenhouse canopy, I get 100% coverage of my little guy. That's important because my son is only 8 weeks old today and his sensitive skin needs to be protected from the sun. The bottom basket is huge and I can easily access my purse in the basket. It collapses easily, almost as easily as my Baby Jogger 2011 City Mini Single Stroller, Stone/Black. You might wonder why I have a Trekko if I also have a BJCM. The Trekko handles gravel and trails much better than my BJCM. I got this stroller on another site for less than $100.

Negatives: I wouldn't have paid more than $100 for it now that I've used it. It is HEAVY so it's not my everyday stroller. I keep it in the garage or in my husband's car so he can handle the heavy lifting. It takes up a LOT of space in the trunk of his 2010 Dodge Charger. It doesn't have a parent console which I get around by attaching my Skip Hop Duo Deluxe, Blackbag with shuttle clips and eventually I'll attach the Skip Hop Bento Diaper Tote Bag, Black. I can't comment on the lack of a snack tray. Both the lack of a snack tray and parent console are similar to that of my BJCM.

Overall, I like this stroller, but I don't love it. It's too big for everyday but it's great for walks on gravel and trails especially when I can get my husband to do the lifting.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
1 of 1 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             Too big, October 25, 2012                        By&nbsp;Jenny   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         I thought I was purchasing a stroller that would fold up nicely in the back of my car, but even folded up it is too big. The stroller takes up the back of my SUV and leaves barely any room for anything else. Wish I had bought some thing smaller. Definitely cannot pack the stroller if I'm planning to get groceries.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
1 of 1 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             big baby!, August 8, 2012                        By&nbsp;A. Ikpah   - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Graco Trekko Stroller, Metropolis (Baby Product)         Very high tech. Great price! Took my son to new York city. He did not cry once while in this cart.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


