//Review
51 of 56 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             The Phone is NOT UNLOCKED!, July 7, 2012                        By&nbsp;KV   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         I don't understand why Amazon is selling this phone as UNLOCKED when is NOT UNLOCKED, this phone is locked to Yoigo Spain, and unlock codes doesn't work because of some Yoigo problem.
If you live in South America this phone will not work, yo have been warned, and the worst thing is that Amazon won't help you in any way, I wrote them about the problem and they told me to comunicate to Motorola, I did that via Mail and Motorola never responded me, then I told Amazon that Motorola didn't respond me and they also didn't respond, so I was left alone to solve this problem any way I can when it should be Amazon's obligaton to give me a solution. I have been a very good Amazon customer and I am really disapointed that after buying so many things from them, I didn't get any help, a very good customer as I, should't be treated that way!
At first when I inserted my Sim card I got a message asking for a network code, but after trying many codes the message was gone and now I only get an Invalid Sim message, so now my only choice is to unlock it via software, so I have to pay an extra $35 to a store so my phone can be unlock via software, I just hope it works, otherwise I will have a very nice $500 mp3 player.
So to resume don't buy this phone because it is NOT UNLOCKED and Amazon won't give you any help!                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (30)


//Review
34 of 37 people found the following review helpful                       5.0 out of 5 stars             A masterpiece, January 24, 2012                        By&nbsp;Rahul Kaushik   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         I purchased the DROID RAZR last week and I like it a lot. Previously i owned a Nokia X6, which is also a terrific phone but a little slow by modern standards. I ordered it by standard shipping from Best n Price and surprise surprise.. they sent it the next day.. which was GREAT. I was a little skeptical as this phone is without warranty and looked a little expensive. Now,

ABout the Droid Razr -
Razr = Gorilla Glass + Kevlar + 7.1mm thick (or should i say SLIM) + 8MP camera, no need to say more about the build. Its nearly perfect.
The Razr is pretty fast and the iphone looks dwarf as compared to this. The interface is also customized and pretty cool with the 5 home screens moving in a 3D. Apps on the Homescreens can be resized, removed by a quick hold and flick of the finger (Home screens are just too cool). Android phones are all about apps and there are plenty of cool and useful apps to be downloaded from the android market which is a great asset.

MOTOCAST -
I found Motocast, the software that can sync the Droid Razr and ur laptop, pretty interesting. In the beginning it takes sometime to get used to, but once u know how it works, makes just freakin cool to download and watch, listen anything thats on my laptop ANYWHERE, yes, ANYWHERE provided the laptop is ON.

SMART ACTIONS -
Yes, this is one of the most useful app in Moto Droid Razr. Customize and make own schedules to switch on Wifi, save battery by dimming brightness when not charging, change the ringtone volume, modify screen timeout automatically. All this works in a Trigger and Action fashion which is easy to understand and conserves a lot of manual effort. AWE***SOME

I tried skype on Wifi, video was great without lag but a little echo in sound. Processes and Tasks can be monitored with pre-installed apps, which I like to do even on my laptop.

BATTERY-
Yes, it takes you through a day easily but needs charge in the night.
With all my daily tasks like Calls , Chatting (almost Whole day), browing in the evening or whenever i get time I can easily squeeze 12 -14 hrs from the Moto Droid Razr and be still left with 20% of the battery. Definitely a continuous use can drain it in 8 hrs. but the charging time is 1.5 hrs (Pretty less)

SIGNAL STRENGTH
I read in a review that the MOTO Razr can catch a signal in the most remote areas and the worst places. Voila, thats just what I wanted, I work in a place where I never used to get signal, but Droid Razr catches almost 3 - 4 bars. Sometimes it searches for the signal but very rarely. This is one of the best things about this Razr. Even the iphone (or any others I have seen with my colleagues) with a better service provider catches only 1-2 bars.

PROS - Big screen, Connectivity, Build, Motocast, Smart actions, Interface, Cool Apps, Sound, Calls, Fastest shipping I have seen

CONS - OS 2.3.5 (need the latest one ICS), No Micro SD card (with this model), Battery (could have been better), No warranty

I never write long reviews but this one deserves it.
Simply said.. THIS is a great phone and worth every penny. I love my Razr.

Edit:
I received the ICS upgrade (Europe version) last evening and its been working great (I am in US). This phone is amazing after the ICS upgrade. Just a little heads up to anyone who is going to upgrade to ICS, the process (download and install) might take long (between 30 min to 2.5 hrs) but it will eventually upgrade and start the phone. My phone looked like it was stuck on "Starting Applications" screen for 2 hours but it finally worked and I am on ICS now.
The RAZR just got a whole lot better. I will also recommend using the GO Launcher EX from Android market, it makes this phone simply awesome.

More Update after 2 days of ICS use. I will keep this short -
Pros:
1. Better Battery Life (Under same conditions, earlier I used to have 40% at the end of day (10-11 hrs), now I was left with 60%)
2. Amazing UI and the phone interface simply looks great. The whole experience is more Fluid.
3. Feels more faster, i think there have been performance improvements.

Cons:
1. Task Manager is gone. There is no Default Task Manager. (Third party ones can be downloaded)
2. Signal Strength has dropped one bar. (Still Its much better than a lot of major brand phones, my colleagues complain about signal loss, while i still enjoy signal in those places)

TIP: Some people have complained that they cannot find option to ENABLE/DISABLE Background Data. The "Restrict Background Data" option is present in "Data Usage" Settings when options Key is pressed on the phone.
(There is a bug while controlling this through Smart Actions, I encountered it once)

Overall, from my viewpooint, they addressed major issues of battery life (i never had an issue here), better UI, higher performance. So, ICS is definitely recommended for Razr.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (16)


//Review
24 of 27 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Nice phone, very light, bad speaker, micro SIM, December 1, 2011                        By&nbsp;Jazzer  (Baltimore, MD)  - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         Just got this phone and paid 680 USD.  Prices are falling, so if you wait a bit it should be cheaper.  The one I got appears to be an "import" from the UK.  A couple of complaints:  not so good single speaker on the back which sounds plastic-like similar those cheap clear-membrane loudspeakers, but headphones are better.  And, the battery life is very short if you play games or watch movies.  I have to charge it everyday.  Hopefully, Moto will get enough complaints about the battery life and design a better battery for future phones.  It takes the micro SIM, so I had to cut my old one to "fit" into the smaller slot - I did not want to change my number and micro SIMs are a bit harder to find in China.  Overall, a good phone, thin and light to carry, and wide screen (I can't imagine what the Galaxy S2 LTE HD at 4.65 feels like - huge maybe in comparison).  Video in low light is good, but nothing to write home about.  So, you will pay a premium for a skinny mobile and keep the charger with you...  Cheers!                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (13)


//Review
16 of 18 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             I can't use, May 13, 2012                        By&nbsp;Armando Ruiz  (Guanajuato, MX)  - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         This phone is not unlocked, I try many ways to unlock it, but never acknowledged my micro SIM, I bought the unlock codes by IMEI and do not work, and another thing, if you plan to buy, not buy it                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (4)


//Review
9 of 9 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Great but for a few flaws, March 3, 2012                        By&nbsp;Alexander Collins "Alex"  (Georgetown, Guyana)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         After about 3 weeks of use I've found this to be have quite a few shortcomings out of the box. With the help of a few apps and customizations it's turning out to be a great phone.

PROS:
1. Great display - great cross between tablet and phone. Great for watching videos.
2. Extremely responsive touch
3. Very fast
4. Slim design and light - not too light as some suggest. I added a good case which made it a tad heavier and a bit more comfortable in the hands.
5. Comes with a good deal of useable apps
6. Pretty good camera - works well at night and very well during the day
7. Decent video in the dark... haven't yet checked the daytime recording
8. Good quality sound with headphones
9. Motorola's Motocast software is great for accessing media from different computers. Once the software is installed on the relevant computers files can be accessed as long as all computers and phone have internet access. Greatly reduces the need to store files on the phone itself.
10. Contact management is a breeze once contacts are available though an internet source
11. Very useful widgets out of the box

CONS:
1. Battery life is extremely short when gaming and using media (music, videos and such). There are a some good solutions I've found like using a very dim display brightness which helps tremendously but battery life is still very disappointing

2. The default Android 2.x keyboard is unbelievably disappointing. Except for the fullstop simple things such as question marks and single uplifted commas have to be accessed by using the '?123' button. The keyboard layout isn't customizable so that unused keys can be replaced. Also, ten keys have a different long press function, the numeric keys. All others have nothing for long presses. How dumb is it to put simple stuff like question marks and commas in a separate screen and have about sixteen other keys with nothing for long presses?!

3. Screen cannot be set to time out without requiring a slide to unlock. Don't know if I missed something but as much as I've tried once the display times out, I'm required to slide to unlock. Sometimes I just want the display off without a need to slide all the time

4. Home screens cannot be removed or added

5. Multi-tasking is un-intuitive except for the help of an app. Difficult to switch between running apps or to even see what's running. Thankfully that was fixed with an app.

6. Have found that the touch becomes unresponsive occasionally. This hasn't happened often but when it does it's extremely annoying. Once I attempted to swipe to answer a call and it wouldn't repsons. Had to hit the power button before it responded.

7. No recording software out of the box

8. Boasts 16GB of storage with a 16GB micro SD card included but actually has 8GB usable storage and I got no micro SD card with mine (Unlocked version)

9. Speaker leaves some to be desired

10. Adding offline contacts  is too difficult

That's all I can think of for now. Hopefully there will be a software update to address some of the issues mentioned above but still a good and fun phone. No regrets buying this one.

JUNE 5th Update as requested:
A couple more CONS of note:
11. I is indeed ridiculous to have had paid over US$500 for the phone and it came without a warranty. Even if it is an international version.

12. Where the options for the image galleries are many, for music playback it is very limited. Music files in the file browser cannot be added to playlists, even a currently playing queue. Also, when multiple music files are selected from the file browser, the only options are 'Download' and 'Open' and open opens a single file. Finally, no option to sort music by location.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (6)


//Review
7 of 7 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             so bad, May 14, 2012                        By&nbsp;abdurraouf   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         This mobile doesn't unlocked , it's locked on YOIGO Spain sim card, this is problem because when I bought request an open on any network                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (6)


//Review
6 of 6 people found the following review helpful                       4.0 out of 5 stars             Luv this fone!, February 7, 2012                        By&nbsp;JoHn   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         So many in depth reviews saying almost everything I wanted to say...this phone is really awesome! I am not a Motorola fanboy, actually it's my 1st Moto phone ever, but couldn't resist buying it.
Only few points I will emphasize on:
-The look: many reviewers kept on comparing this phone with other phones-specs wise, forgetting to put into consideration the size factor! I never had or wanted to have any phone bigger than 3.2" till I saw the beauty of this RAZR ( & to be honest the GS2 in regard of being slim as well). The phone is a certain conversation starter, looks really cool, well built and definitely not cheap ( and it isn't!)
The very new HTC one is bragging to be one of the slimmest phones, well, as slim as it is, it is still bigger than the RAZR!Have been checking most of the phones that are appearing in the market and none could beat the beauty of the RAZR IMO.
-the speed: added tons of apps and games, no sweat!
-Battery: dunno what other reviewers expected from a phone with such a processor, screen & 4G but this needs power! My last 4 smartphones' batteries (in 5 years) couldn't last more than a day, so this one is no surprise. add Juice defender app and it helps u go through the day with moderate use. Some days I talk too much and play too much this is when I need to charge it twice a day, I have a portable external battery that I got off e-bay for around $10. It works fine and is really small.Easier to carry even in pocket.
Despite that I actually took one star off cos of the battery and lame camera..at this price range I still expected more from the battery and definitely a more stable cam. U do get better shots when u get to know how to use it, but it could definitely have been better.

overall the best smartphone IMO now in market, and will get better with the ICS upgrade in few months.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


//Review
4 of 4 people found the following review helpful                       2.0 out of 5 stars             For $375 you can do better, July 11, 2012                        By&nbsp;Jason He   - See all my reviews                       Amazon Verified Purchase(What's this?)                         This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         Pros:

* Extremely thin yet tough build quality (except the Gorilla Glass screen--see below)
* Strong cell reception compared to most other smartphones
* Loud, clear phone calls
* Clever Motorola-exclusive software features such as Smart Actions (which, e.g., can autostart your music app when you plug in headphones)
* Decent HD video recording quality

Cons:

* Abysmal battery life. When the screen is active, charge declines 10% every 15 minutes. That said, casual and conscientious users should be able to make it through the workday. Keep the screen brightness down and avoid lengthy gaming or web browsing sessions.
* Bad camera. Photos lack vibrancy and are prone to blur. The shutter delay is longer than on most smartphones.
* Extremely weak WiFi radio. Signal drops in places where other smartphones can maintain a weaker but stable connection.
* Screen is made with Gorilla Glass but feels flimsier than iPhone
* Stuck on Android 2.3.6 "Gingerbread" even though the Verizon version has already been updated to 4.0

This is not a terrible phone, but $375 can buy much better alternatives like the Galaxy Nexus (which also lacks LTE and a good camera, but has a better battery and runs Android 4.1).                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (2)


//Review
6 of 7 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             Gets worse ... Motorola USA won't change/check battery even for $, September 6, 2012                        By&nbsp;Kev   - See all my reviews                       This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         (I did not purchase this phone through Amazon, but my experience is relevant to any US purchaser.) I purchased this phone in May in SE Asia from a leading dealer. It has a "local" warranty, and that, unfortunately, seems to be the norm.

Late August, I started losing battery in 1-3 hours instead of the previous 4-8 hours, and the battery now goes from 50% to 5% (and off) in only a few minutes!

I'm in the US now for a couple of months, so I contacted Motorola Support to arrange to have the phone checked and maybe have the battery changed. First rep (Brian on "LiveChat") said it was possible the phone would be returned unrepaired, since it's identified by the IMEI as a Singapore phone. Later I realized the rep had misunderstood, that I was offering to pay for the repair/change if necessary. So I contacted them again and chatted with Romella. She said Moto USA would be able to work with it, probably at no charge, since it was under warranty. Great, I thought. She said Moto repair would call the next day with an RMA and instructions.

The phone powered off the moment I tried to accept their call this morning. I called back and spoke first with "Michael" in repair (he sounded Indian), and he put me on hold 5-8 times, and the call took 45 minutes just trying to find out what repair had tried to call me about. He reported that Moto USA wouldn't touch the phone, no matter how much money I was willing to pay. He escalated me to Felicia (sp?), who sounded as though in the US.

Felicia told me that XT912s (Verizon's RAZR) are made in the US (!) and they are the only RAZRs that Motorola USA ([...]) can service at any price. I asked her what I should do about changing the battery, since the design does NOT allow consumers to open the battery compartment. She said I should send it to Singapore, since the warranty was there. I reiterated that I wanted to pay to have it done here quickly and that I understood that the warranty did not cover use of the phone in the US. She repeated that I had to send it to Singapore, since they have no idea what an XT910 is in the US, have different software, etc.

XXX I'm sending it to Singapore tomorrow and will need to get a temp. handset, since I'll probably lose the phone for several weeks and will probably have to pay a fortune in shipping. Times like this I regret the MicroSIM as well.

I would NOT recommend this phone or any other Moto phone without user changeable battery, unless you are buying it from Verizon, with Verizon's insurance, to use in the US only. Moto is very provincial and seems to have a deal with Verizon to pretend that Moto is just a subsidiary of Verizon in the US. What a joke.

I wish I'd heeded friends' advice to get an iPhone or a Samsung. For that matter, I noticed that Sony's US website offers direct sales of unlocked phones with US warranties (as well as AT&T and other locked ones). While these appear to be US-only warranties, bad for travel outside the US, it would seem that I could have bought a Sony in Asia and at least gotten out-of-warranty service for the phone here in the US, if I'd needed it. Apple also has direct sales of unlocked iPhones.

Maybe Moto Sing will make my day and turn-around quickly and not charge much for shipping back to the US. If so, I promise to share the good news here. 2 months ago, the phone was a 3-4 star item in my eyes. With no battery, and no way to change it in the US, it's a 0-1 star. Goodbye Motorola.
***
It gets worse: US Postal Service, Fedex, and UPS will NOT ship the phone with its lithium-ion battery from US to Singapore. It's deemed hazardous. So, Moto US won't open the phone and test the battery; instead they say to send it to Singapore. But no one will send it to Singapore. I'm sick of dealing with Motorola ... Lesson: Don't buy a phone with embedded battery unless one's sure the battery will be looked at by the same company's reps in another country. Apple and Sony are looking better and better.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comments (2)


//Review
3 of 3 people found the following review helpful                       1.0 out of 5 stars             Gorilla Glass Cracks Easily.  Motorola No Help, November 27, 2012                        By&nbsp;Paul C. Glusman "berkeleykid"  (Berkeley CA)  - See all my reviews
 (REAL NAME)   &nbsp;&nbsp;                          This review is from:  Motorola XT-910 DROID RAZR Unlocked GSM Smartphone with 8 MP Camera, Android OS, Wi-Fi, and GPS--No Warranty (Black) (Wireless Phone Accessory)         I had this phone one month.  I took it out of my pocket, no impact or anything, and it had spider-web cracks in the outer gorilla glass.  I called Motorola, they said they would fix it for free.  Ten days later I get an email reneging on the promise to fix it for free.  They wanted $100.  I said I would pay he money under protest and go to small claims court.  But without waiting for my answer, they already had sent back the broken phone, unrepaired, to me, wasting another 2 days of my time for a total of 12 days without my phone.  Meanwhile I am paying Verizon for service I am not getting.

The phone looks good and elegant.  For that reason, run, run away as fast as you can from this phone and this manufacturer.  Get a Samsung, or an iphone, or anything else.  Motorola makes a defective product and won't stand by it.  There are blogs on the web in which hundreds of people have complained of the screen breaking, for example:  [removed by amazon]  And that's just one of dozens of such chains.

Meanwhile Motorola promises they'll fix it free, goes back on the promise, and charges you for its error.  Find another manufacturer that is stand up and backs its work.                 Help other customers find the most helpful reviews&nbsp;           Was this review helpful to you?&nbsp; Yes   No                 Report abuse    |  Permalink Comment  &nbsp;Comment


